spring-boot-project/spring-boot-tools/spring-boot-gradle-plugin/src/docs/asciidoc/index.adoc, before:

= Spring Boot Gradle Plugin Reference Guide
Andy Wilkinson, Scott Frederick
:doctype: book
:toc: left
:toclevels: 4
:numbered:
:sectanchors:
:icons: font
:hide-uri-scheme:
:docinfo: shared,private

:dependency-management-plugin: https://github.com/spring-gradle-plugins/dependency-management-plugin
:dependency-management-plugin-documentation: {dependency-management-plugin}/blob/master/README.md
:gradle-userguide: https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide
:gradle-dsl: https://docs.gradle.org/current/dsl
:gradle-api: https://docs.gradle.org/current/javadoc
:application-plugin: {gradle-userguide}/application_plugin.html
:groovy-plugin: {gradle-userguide}/groovy_plugin.html
:java-plugin: {gradle-userguide}/java_plugin.html
:war-plugin: {gradle-userguide}/war_plugin.html
:maven-plugin: {gradle-userguide}/maven_plugin.html
:maven-publish-plugin: {gradle-userguide}/maven_publish_plugin.html
:software-component: {gradle-userguide}/software_model_extend.html
:kotlin-plugin: https://kotlinlang.org/docs/reference/using-gradle.html
:spring-boot-docs: https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/{gradle-project-version}
:api-documentation: {spring-boot-docs}/gradle-plugin/api
:spring-boot-reference: {spring-boot-docs}/reference/htmlsingle
:spring-boot-api: {spring-boot-docs}/api/org/springframework/boot
:version-properties-appendix: {spring-boot-reference}/#dependency-versions-properties
:build-info-javadoc: {api-documentation}/org/springframework/boot/gradle/tasks/buildinfo/BuildInfo.html
:boot-build-image-javadoc: {api-documentation}/org/springframework/boot/gradle/tasks/bundling/BootBuildImage.html
:boot-jar-javadoc: {api-documentation}/org/springframework/boot/gradle/tasks/bundling/BootJar.html
:boot-war-javadoc: {api-documentation}/org/springframework/boot/gradle/tasks/bundling/BootWar.html
:boot-run-javadoc: {api-documentation}/org/springframework/boot/gradle/tasks/run/BootRun.html
:github-code: https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-boot/tree/{github-tag}
:buildpacks-reference: https://buildpacks.io/docs
:paketo-reference: https://paketo.io/docs
:paketo-java-reference: {paketo-reference}/buildpacks/language-family-buildpacks/java


[[introduction]]
== Introduction
The Spring Boot Gradle Plugin provides Spring Boot support in https://gradle.org[Gradle].
It allows you to package executable jar or war archives, run Spring Boot applications, and use the dependency management provided by `spring-boot-dependencies`.
Spring Boot's Gradle plugin requires Gradle 6 (6.3 or later).
Gradle's {gradle-userguide}/configuration_cache.html[configuration cache] is supported when using Gradle 6.7 or later.

In addition to this user guide, {api-documentation}[API documentation] is also available.

include::getting-started.adoc[]
include::managing-dependencies.adoc[]
include::packaging.adoc[]
include::packaging-oci-image.adoc[]
include::publishing.adoc[]
include::running.adoc[]
include::integrating-with-actuator.adoc[]
include::reacting.adoc[]

Commit message:

Support Gradle 7 and raise minimum supported version to 6.8
Closes gh-26026

spring-boot-project/spring-boot-tools/spring-boot-gradle-plugin/src/docs/asciidoc/index.adoc, after:

= Spring Boot Gradle Plugin Reference Guide
Andy Wilkinson, Scott Frederick
:doctype: book
:toc: left
:toclevels: 4
:numbered:
:sectanchors:
:icons: font
:hide-uri-scheme:
:docinfo: shared,private

:dependency-management-plugin: https://github.com/spring-gradle-plugins/dependency-management-plugin
:dependency-management-plugin-documentation: {dependency-management-plugin}/blob/master/README.md
:gradle-userguide: https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide
:gradle-dsl: https://docs.gradle.org/current/dsl
:gradle-api: https://docs.gradle.org/current/javadoc
:application-plugin: {gradle-userguide}/application_plugin.html
:groovy-plugin: {gradle-userguide}/groovy_plugin.html
:java-plugin: {gradle-userguide}/java_plugin.html
:war-plugin: {gradle-userguide}/war_plugin.html
:maven-plugin: {gradle-userguide}/maven_plugin.html
:maven-publish-plugin: {gradle-userguide}/maven_publish_plugin.html
:software-component: {gradle-userguide}/software_model_extend.html
:kotlin-plugin: https://kotlinlang.org/docs/reference/using-gradle.html
:spring-boot-docs: https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/{gradle-project-version}
:api-documentation: {spring-boot-docs}/gradle-plugin/api
:spring-boot-reference: {spring-boot-docs}/reference/htmlsingle
:spring-boot-api: {spring-boot-docs}/api/org/springframework/boot
:version-properties-appendix: {spring-boot-reference}/#dependency-versions-properties
:build-info-javadoc: {api-documentation}/org/springframework/boot/gradle/tasks/buildinfo/BuildInfo.html
:boot-build-image-javadoc: {api-documentation}/org/springframework/boot/gradle/tasks/bundling/BootBuildImage.html
:boot-jar-javadoc: {api-documentation}/org/springframework/boot/gradle/tasks/bundling/BootJar.html
:boot-war-javadoc: {api-documentation}/org/springframework/boot/gradle/tasks/bundling/BootWar.html
:boot-run-javadoc: {api-documentation}/org/springframework/boot/gradle/tasks/run/BootRun.html
:github-code: https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-boot/tree/{github-tag}
:buildpacks-reference: https://buildpacks.io/docs
:paketo-reference: https://paketo.io/docs
:paketo-java-reference: {paketo-reference}/buildpacks/language-family-buildpacks/java


[[introduction]]
== Introduction
The Spring Boot Gradle Plugin provides Spring Boot support in https://gradle.org[Gradle].
It allows you to package executable jar or war archives, run Spring Boot applications, and use the dependency management provided by `spring-boot-dependencies`.
Spring Boot's Gradle plugin requires Gradle 6.8 or 7.x and can be used with Gradle's {gradle-userguide}/configuration_cache.html[configuration cache].

In addition to this user guide, {api-documentation}[API documentation] is also available.

include::getting-started.adoc[]
include::managing-dependencies.adoc[]
include::packaging.adoc[]
include::packaging-oci-image.adoc[]
include::publishing.adoc[]
include::running.adoc[]
include::integrating-with-actuator.adoc[]
include::reacting.adoc[]
