spring-boot-project/spring-boot-tools/spring-boot-gradle-plugin/src/docs/asciidoc/packaging-oci-image.adoc, before:

[[build-image]]
== Packaging OCI Images
The plugin can create an https://github.com/opencontainers/image-spec[OCI image] from an executable jar file using https://buildpacks.io[Cloud Native Buildpacks] (CNB).
Images can be built using the `bootBuildImage` task.

NOTE: For security reasons, images build and run as non-root users.
See the {buildpacks-reference}/reference/spec/platform-api/#users[CNB specification] for more details.

The task is automatically created when the `java` plugin is applied and is an instance of {boot-build-image-javadoc}[`BootBuildImage`].

NOTE: The `bootBuildImage` task is not supported with projects using <<packaging-executable-wars, war packaging>>.

NOTE: The `bootBuildImage` task can not be used with a <<packaging-executable-configuring-launch-script, fully executable Spring Boot archive>> that includes a launch script.
Disable launch script configuration in the `bootJar` task when building a jar file that is intended to be used with `bootBuildImage`.

[[build-image-docker-daemon]]
=== Docker Daemon
The `bootBuildImage` task requires access to a Docker daemon.
By default, it will communicate with a Docker daemon over a local connection.
This works with https://docs.docker.com/install/[Docker Engine] on all supported platforms without configuration.

Environment variables can be set to configure the `bootBuildImage` task to use the https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/tasks/docker_daemon/[Docker daemon provided by minikube].
The following table shows the environment variables and their values:

|===
| Environment variable | Description

| DOCKER_HOST
| URL containing the host and port for the Docker daemon - e.g. `tcp://192.168.99.100:2376`

| DOCKER_TLS_VERIFY
| Enable secure HTTPS protocol when set to `1` (optional)

| DOCKER_CERT_PATH
| Path to certificate and key files for HTTPS (required if `DOCKER_TLS_VERIFY=1`, ignored otherwise)
|===

On Linux and macOS, these environment variables can be set using the command `eval $(minikube docker-env)` after minikube has been started.



[[build-image-customization]]
=== Image Customizations
The plugin invokes a {buildpacks-reference}/concepts/components/builder/[builder] to orchestrate the generation of an image.
The builder includes multiple {buildpacks-reference}/concepts/components/buildpack[buildpacks] that can inspect the application to influence the generated image.
By default, the plugin chooses a builder image.
The name of the generated image is deduced from project properties.

Task properties can be used to configure how the builder should operate on the project.
The following table summarizes the available properties and their default values:

|===
| Property | Command-line option | Description | Default value

| `builder`
| `--builder`
| Name of the Builder image to use.
| `gcr.io/paketo-buildpacks/builder:base-platform-api-0.3`

| `runImage`
| `--runImage`
| Name of the run image to use.
| No default value, indicating the run image specified in Builder metadata should be used.

| `imageName`
| `--imageName`
| {spring-boot-api}/buildpack/platform/docker/type/ImageReference.html#of-java.lang.String-[Image name] for the generated image.
| `docker.io/library/${project.name}:${project.version}`

| `environment`
|
| Environment variables that should be passed to the builder.
|

| `cleanCache`
|
| Whether to clean the cache before building.
| `false`

| `verboseLogging`
|
| Enables verbose logging of builder operations.
| `false`
|===

NOTE: The plugin detects the target Java compatibility of the project using the JavaPlugin's `targetCompatibility` property.
When using the default Paketo builder and buildpacks, the plugin instructs the buildpacks to install the same Java version.
You can override this behaviour as shown in the <<build-image-example-builder-configuration,builder configuration>> examples.



[[build-image-examples]]
=== Examples



[[build-image-example-custom-image-builder]]
==== Custom Image Builder and Run Image
If you need to customize the builder used to create the image or the run image used to launch the built image, configure the task as shown in the following example:

[source,groovy,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="primary"]
.Groovy
----
include::../gradle/packaging/boot-build-image-builder.gradle[tags=builder]
----

[source,kotlin,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="secondary"]
.Kotlin
----
include::../gradle/packaging/boot-build-image-builder.gradle.kts[tags=builder]
----

This configuration will use a builder image with the name `mine/java-cnb-builder` and the tag `latest`, and the run image named `mine/java-cnb-run` and the tag `latest`.

The builder and run image can be specified on the command line as well, as shown in this example:

[indent=0]
----
$ gradle bootBuildImage --builder=mine/java-cnb-builder --runImage=mine/java-cnb-run
----



[[build-image-example-builder-configuration]]
==== Builder Configuration
If the builder exposes configuration options, those can be set using the `environment` property.

The following is an example of {paketo-java-reference}/#configuring-the-jvm-version[configuring the JVM version] used by the Paketo Java buildpacks at build time:

[source,groovy,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="primary"]
.Groovy
----
include::../gradle/packaging/boot-build-image-env.gradle[tags=env]
----

[source,kotlin,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="secondary"]
.Kotlin
----
include::../gradle/packaging/boot-build-image-env.gradle.kts[tags=env]
----

In a similar way, Paketo Java buildpacks support {paketo-java-reference}/#runtime-jvm-configuration[configuring JVM runtime behavior].
Refer to the {paketo-java-reference}[Paketo documentation] for additional configuration options supported by Paketo Java buildpacks.

If there is a network proxy between the Docker daemon the builder runs in and network locations that buildpacks download artifacts from, you will need to configure the builder to use the proxy.
When using the Paketo builder, this can be accomplished by setting the `HTTPS_PROXY` and/or `HTTP_PROXY` environment variables as show in the following example:

[source,groovy,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="primary"]
.Groovy
----
include::../gradle/packaging/boot-build-image-env-proxy.gradle[tags=env]
----

[source,kotlin,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="secondary"]
.Kotlin
----
include::../gradle/packaging/boot-build-image-env-proxy.gradle.kts[tags=env]
----



[[build-image-example-custom-image-name]]
==== Custom Image Name
By default, the image name is inferred from the `name` and the `version` of the project, something like `docker.io/library/${project.name}:${project.version}`.
You can take control over the name by setting task properties, as shown in the following example:

[source,groovy,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="primary"]
.Groovy
----
include::../gradle/packaging/boot-build-image-name.gradle[tags=image-name]
----

[source,kotlin,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="secondary"]
.Kotlin
----
include::../gradle/packaging/boot-build-image-name.gradle.kts[tags=image-name]
----

Note that this configuration does not provide an explicit tag so `latest` is used.
It is possible to specify a tag as well, either using `${project.version}`, any property available in the build or a hardcoded version.

The image name can be specified on the command line as well, as shown in this example:

[indent=0]
----
$ gradle bootBuildImage --imageName=example.com/library/my-app:v1
----

Commit message:

Document runtime JVM configuration when building an image
Fixes gh-21478

spring-boot-project/spring-boot-tools/spring-boot-gradle-plugin/src/docs/asciidoc/packaging-oci-image.adoc, after:

[[build-image]]
== Packaging OCI Images
The plugin can create an https://github.com/opencontainers/image-spec[OCI image] from an executable jar file using https://buildpacks.io[Cloud Native Buildpacks] (CNB).
Images can be built using the `bootBuildImage` task.

NOTE: For security reasons, images build and run as non-root users.
See the {buildpacks-reference}/reference/spec/platform-api/#users[CNB specification] for more details.

The task is automatically created when the `java` plugin is applied and is an instance of {boot-build-image-javadoc}[`BootBuildImage`].

NOTE: The `bootBuildImage` task is not supported with projects using <<packaging-executable-wars, war packaging>>.

NOTE: The `bootBuildImage` task can not be used with a <<packaging-executable-configuring-launch-script, fully executable Spring Boot archive>> that includes a launch script.
Disable launch script configuration in the `bootJar` task when building a jar file that is intended to be used with `bootBuildImage`.

[[build-image-docker-daemon]]
=== Docker Daemon
The `bootBuildImage` task requires access to a Docker daemon.
By default, it will communicate with a Docker daemon over a local connection.
This works with https://docs.docker.com/install/[Docker Engine] on all supported platforms without configuration.

Environment variables can be set to configure the `bootBuildImage` task to use the https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/tasks/docker_daemon/[Docker daemon provided by minikube].
The following table shows the environment variables and their values:

|===
| Environment variable | Description

| DOCKER_HOST
| URL containing the host and port for the Docker daemon - e.g. `tcp://192.168.99.100:2376`

| DOCKER_TLS_VERIFY
| Enable secure HTTPS protocol when set to `1` (optional)

| DOCKER_CERT_PATH
| Path to certificate and key files for HTTPS (required if `DOCKER_TLS_VERIFY=1`, ignored otherwise)
|===

On Linux and macOS, these environment variables can be set using the command `eval $(minikube docker-env)` after minikube has been started.



[[build-image-customization]]
=== Image Customizations
The plugin invokes a {buildpacks-reference}/concepts/components/builder/[builder] to orchestrate the generation of an image.
The builder includes multiple {buildpacks-reference}/concepts/components/buildpack[buildpacks] that can inspect the application to influence the generated image.
By default, the plugin chooses a builder image.
The name of the generated image is deduced from project properties.

Task properties can be used to configure how the builder should operate on the project.
The following table summarizes the available properties and their default values:

|===
| Property | Command-line option | Description | Default value

| `builder`
| `--builder`
| Name of the Builder image to use.
| `gcr.io/paketo-buildpacks/builder:base-platform-api-0.3`

| `runImage`
| `--runImage`
| Name of the run image to use.
| No default value, indicating the run image specified in Builder metadata should be used.

| `imageName`
| `--imageName`
| {spring-boot-api}/buildpack/platform/docker/type/ImageReference.html#of-java.lang.String-[Image name] for the generated image.
| `docker.io/library/${project.name}:${project.version}`

| `environment`
|
| Environment variables that should be passed to the builder.
|

| `cleanCache`
|
| Whether to clean the cache before building.
| `false`

| `verboseLogging`
|
| Enables verbose logging of builder operations.
| `false`
|===

NOTE: The plugin detects the target Java compatibility of the project using the JavaPlugin's `targetCompatibility` property.
When using the default Paketo builder and buildpacks, the plugin instructs the buildpacks to install the same Java version.
You can override this behaviour as shown in the <<build-image-example-builder-configuration,builder configuration>> examples.



[[build-image-examples]]
=== Examples



[[build-image-example-custom-image-builder]]
==== Custom Image Builder and Run Image
If you need to customize the builder used to create the image or the run image used to launch the built image, configure the task as shown in the following example:

[source,groovy,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="primary"]
.Groovy
----
include::../gradle/packaging/boot-build-image-builder.gradle[tags=builder]
----

[source,kotlin,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="secondary"]
.Kotlin
----
include::../gradle/packaging/boot-build-image-builder.gradle.kts[tags=builder]
----

This configuration will use a builder image with the name `mine/java-cnb-builder` and the tag `latest`, and the run image named `mine/java-cnb-run` and the tag `latest`.

The builder and run image can be specified on the command line as well, as shown in this example:

[indent=0]
----
$ gradle bootBuildImage --builder=mine/java-cnb-builder --runImage=mine/java-cnb-run
----



[[build-image-example-builder-configuration]]
==== Builder Configuration
If the builder exposes configuration options, those can be set using the `environment` property.

The following is an example of {paketo-java-reference}/#configuring-the-jvm-version[configuring the JVM version] used by the Paketo Java buildpacks at build time:

[source,groovy,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="primary"]
.Groovy
----
include::../gradle/packaging/boot-build-image-env.gradle[tags=env]
----

[source,kotlin,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="secondary"]
.Kotlin
----
include::../gradle/packaging/boot-build-image-env.gradle.kts[tags=env]
----

If there is a network proxy between the Docker daemon the builder runs in and network locations that buildpacks download artifacts from, you will need to configure the builder to use the proxy.
When using the Paketo builder, this can be accomplished by setting the `HTTPS_PROXY` and/or `HTTP_PROXY` environment variables as show in the following example:

[source,groovy,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="primary"]
.Groovy
----
include::../gradle/packaging/boot-build-image-env-proxy.gradle[tags=env]
----

[source,kotlin,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="secondary"]
.Kotlin
----
include::../gradle/packaging/boot-build-image-env-proxy.gradle.kts[tags=env]
----



[[build-image-example-runtime-jvm-configuration]]
==== Runtime JVM Configuration
Paketo Java buildpacks {paketo-java-reference}/#runtime-jvm-configuration[configure the JVM runtime environment] by setting the `JAVA_TOOL_OPTIONS` environment variable.
The buildpack-provided `JAVA_TOOL_OPTIONS` value can be modified to customize JVM runtime behavior when the application image is launched in a container.

Environment variable modifications that should be stored in the image and applied to every deployment can be set as described in the {paketo-reference}/buildpacks/configuration/#environment-variables[Paketo documentation] and shown in the following example:

[source,groovy,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="primary"]
.Groovy
----
include::../gradle/packaging/boot-build-image-env-runtime.gradle[tags=env-runtime]
----

[source,kotlin,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="secondary"]
.Kotlin
----
include::../gradle/packaging/boot-build-image-env-runtime.gradle.kts[tags=env-runtime]
----



[[build-image-example-custom-image-name]]
==== Custom Image Name
By default, the image name is inferred from the `name` and the `version` of the project, something like `docker.io/library/${project.name}:${project.version}`.
You can take control over the name by setting task properties, as shown in the following example:

[source,groovy,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="primary"]
.Groovy
----
include::../gradle/packaging/boot-build-image-name.gradle[tags=image-name]
----

[source,kotlin,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="secondary"]
.Kotlin
----
include::../gradle/packaging/boot-build-image-name.gradle.kts[tags=image-name]
----

Note that this configuration does not provide an explicit tag so `latest` is used.
It is possible to specify a tag as well, either using `${project.version}`, any property available in the build or a hardcoded version.

The image name can be specified on the command line as well, as shown in this example:

[indent=0]
----
$ gradle bootBuildImage --imageName=example.com/library/my-app:v1
----
