spring-boot-project/spring-boot-tools/spring-boot-gradle-plugin/src/docs/asciidoc/publishing.adoc, before:

[[publishing-your-application]]
== Publishing your Application



[[publishing-your-application-maven-publish]]
=== Publishing with the Maven-publish Plugin
To publish your Spring Boot jar or war, add it to the publication using the `artifact` method on `MavenPublication`.
Pass the task that produces that artifact that you wish to publish to the `artifact` method.
For example, to publish the artifact produced by the default `bootJar` task:

[source,groovy,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="primary"]
.Groovy
----
include::../gradle/publishing/maven-publish.gradle[tags=publishing]
----

[source,kotlin,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="secondary"]
.Kotlin
----
include::../gradle/publishing/maven-publish.gradle.kts[tags=publishing]
----



[[publishing-your-application-maven]]
=== Publishing with the Maven Plugin
WARNING: The `maven` plugin has been deprecated in Gradle 6 and has been removed in Gradle 7.
Please use the `maven-publish` plugin instead.

When the {maven-plugin}[`maven` plugin] is applied, an `Upload` task for the `bootArchives` configuration named `uploadBootArchives` is automatically created.
By default, the `bootArchives` configuration contains the archive produced by the `bootJar` or `bootWar` task.
The `uploadBootArchives` task can be configured to publish the archive to a Maven repository:

[source,groovy,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="primary"]
.Groovy
----
include::../gradle/publishing/maven.gradle[tags=upload]
----

[source,kotlin,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="secondary"]
.Kotlin
----
include::../gradle/publishing/maven.gradle.kts[tags=upload]
----



[[publishing-your-application-distribution]]
=== Distributing with the Application Plugin
When the {application-plugin}[`application` plugin] is applied a distribution named `boot` is created.
This distribution contains the archive produced by the `bootJar` or `bootWar` task and scripts to launch it on Unix-like platforms and Windows.
Zip and tar distributions can be built by the `bootDistZip` and `bootDistTar` tasks respectively.
To use the `application` plugin, its `mainClassName` property must be configured with the name of your application's main class.

Commit message:

Deprecate support for Gradle's maven plugin
Closes gh-25267

spring-boot-project/spring-boot-tools/spring-boot-gradle-plugin/src/docs/asciidoc/publishing.adoc, after:

[[publishing-your-application]]
== Publishing your Application



[[publishing-your-application-maven-publish]]
=== Publishing with the Maven-publish Plugin
To publish your Spring Boot jar or war, add it to the publication using the `artifact` method on `MavenPublication`.
Pass the task that produces that artifact that you wish to publish to the `artifact` method.
For example, to publish the artifact produced by the default `bootJar` task:

[source,groovy,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="primary"]
.Groovy
----
include::../gradle/publishing/maven-publish.gradle[tags=publishing]
----

[source,kotlin,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="secondary"]
.Kotlin
----
include::../gradle/publishing/maven-publish.gradle.kts[tags=publishing]
----



[[publishing-your-application-maven]]
=== Publishing with the Maven Plugin
WARNING: Due to its deprecation in Gradle 6, this plugin's support for publishing with Gradle's `maven` plugin is deprecated and will be removed in a future release.
Please use the `maven-publish` plugin instead.

When the {maven-plugin}[`maven` plugin] is applied, an `Upload` task for the `bootArchives` configuration named `uploadBootArchives` is automatically created.
By default, the `bootArchives` configuration contains the archive produced by the `bootJar` or `bootWar` task.
The `uploadBootArchives` task can be configured to publish the archive to a Maven repository:

[source,groovy,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="primary"]
.Groovy
----
include::../gradle/publishing/maven.gradle[tags=upload]
----

[source,kotlin,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="secondary"]
.Kotlin
----
include::../gradle/publishing/maven.gradle.kts[tags=upload]
----



[[publishing-your-application-distribution]]
=== Distributing with the Application Plugin
When the {application-plugin}[`application` plugin] is applied a distribution named `boot` is created.
This distribution contains the archive produced by the `bootJar` or `bootWar` task and scripts to launch it on Unix-like platforms and Windows.
Zip and tar distributions can be built by the `bootDistZip` and `bootDistTar` tasks respectively.
To use the `application` plugin, its `mainClassName` property must be configured with the name of your application's main class.
