spring-boot-project/spring-boot-tools/spring-boot-gradle-plugin/src/docs/asciidoc/reacting.adoc, before:

[[reacting-to-other-plugins]]
== Reacting to Other Plugins
When another plugin is applied the Spring Boot plugin reacts by making various changes to the project's configuration.
This section describes those changes.



[[reacting-to-other-plugins-java]]
=== Reacting to the Java Plugin
When Gradle's {java-plugin}[`java` plugin] is applied to a project, the Spring Boot plugin:

1. Creates a {boot-jar-javadoc}[`BootJar`] task named `bootJar` that will create an executable, fat jar for the project.
   The jar will contain everything on the runtime classpath of the main source set; classes are packaged in `BOOT-INF/classes` and jars are packaged in `BOOT-INF/lib`
2. Configures the `assemble` task to depend on the `bootJar` task.
3. Disables the `jar` task.
4. Creates a {boot-build-image-javadoc}[`BootBuildImage`] task named `bootBuildImage` that will create a OCI image using a https://buildpacks.io[buildpack].
5. Creates a {boot-run-javadoc}[`BootRun`] task named `bootRun` that can be used to run your application.
6. Creates a configuration named `bootArchives` that contains the artifact produced by the `bootJar` task.
7. Creates a configuration named `developmentOnly` for dependencies that are only required at development time, such as Spring Boot's Devtools, and should not be packaged in executable jars and wars.
8. Configures any `JavaCompile` tasks with no configured encoding to use `UTF-8`.
9. Configures any `JavaCompile` tasks to use the `-parameters` compiler argument.



[[reacting-to-other-plugins-kotlin]]
=== Reacting to the Kotlin Plugin
When {kotlin-plugin}[Kotlin's Gradle plugin] is applied to a project, the Spring Boot plugin:

1. Aligns the Kotlin version used in Spring Boot's dependency management with the version of the plugin.
   This is achieved by setting the `kotlin.version` property with a value that matches the version of the Kotlin plugin.
2. Configures any `KotlinCompile` tasks to use the `-java-parameters` compiler argument.



[[reacting-to-other-plugins-war]]
=== Reacting to the War Plugin
When Gradle's {war-plugin}[`war` plugin] is applied to a project, the Spring Boot plugin:

1. Creates a {boot-war-javadoc}[`BootWar`] task named `bootWar` that will create an executable, fat war for the project.
   In addition to the standard packaging, everything in the `providedRuntime` configuration will be packaged in `WEB-INF/lib-provided`.
2. Configures the `assemble` task to depend on the `bootWar` task.
3. Disables the `war` task.
4. Configures the `bootArchives` configuration to contain the artifact produced by the `bootWar` task.



[[reacting-to-other-plugins-dependency-management]]
=== Reacting to the Dependency Management Plugin
When the {dependency-management-plugin}[`io.spring.dependency-management` plugin] is applied to a project, the Spring Boot plugin will automatically import the `spring-boot-dependencies` bom.



[[reacting-to-other-plugins-application]]
=== Reacting to the Application Plugin
When Gradle's {application-plugin}[`application` plugin] is applied to a project, the Spring Boot plugin:

1. Creates a `CreateStartScripts` task named `bootStartScripts` that will create scripts that launch the artifact in the `bootArchives` configuration using `java -jar`.
   The task is configured to use the `applicationDefaultJvmArgs` property as a convention for its `defaultJvmOpts` property.
2. Creates a new distribution named `boot` and configures it to contain the artifact in the `bootArchives` configuration in its `lib` directory and the start scripts in its `bin` directory.
3. Configures the `bootRun` task to use the `mainClassName` property as a convention for its `main` property.
4. Configures the `bootRun` task to use the `applicationDefaultJvmArgs` property as a convention for its `jvmArgs` property.
5. Configures the `bootJar` task to use the `mainClassName` property as a convention for the `Start-Class` entry in its manifest.
6. Configures the `bootWar` task to use the `mainClassName` property as a convention for the `Start-Class` entry in its manifest.



[[reacting-to-other-plugins-maven]]
=== Reacting to the Maven plugin
When Gradle's {maven-plugin}[`maven` plugin] is applied to a project, the Spring Boot plugin will configure the `uploadBootArchives` `Upload` task to ensure that no dependencies are declared in the pom that it generates.

Commit message:

Deprecate support for Gradle's maven plugin
Closes gh-25267

spring-boot-project/spring-boot-tools/spring-boot-gradle-plugin/src/docs/asciidoc/reacting.adoc, after:

[[reacting-to-other-plugins]]
== Reacting to Other Plugins
When another plugin is applied the Spring Boot plugin reacts by making various changes to the project's configuration.
This section describes those changes.



[[reacting-to-other-plugins-java]]
=== Reacting to the Java Plugin
When Gradle's {java-plugin}[`java` plugin] is applied to a project, the Spring Boot plugin:

1. Creates a {boot-jar-javadoc}[`BootJar`] task named `bootJar` that will create an executable, fat jar for the project.
   The jar will contain everything on the runtime classpath of the main source set; classes are packaged in `BOOT-INF/classes` and jars are packaged in `BOOT-INF/lib`
2. Configures the `assemble` task to depend on the `bootJar` task.
3. Disables the `jar` task.
4. Creates a {boot-build-image-javadoc}[`BootBuildImage`] task named `bootBuildImage` that will create a OCI image using a https://buildpacks.io[buildpack].
5. Creates a {boot-run-javadoc}[`BootRun`] task named `bootRun` that can be used to run your application.
6. Creates a configuration named `bootArchives` that contains the artifact produced by the `bootJar` task.
7. Creates a configuration named `developmentOnly` for dependencies that are only required at development time, such as Spring Boot's Devtools, and should not be packaged in executable jars and wars.
8. Configures any `JavaCompile` tasks with no configured encoding to use `UTF-8`.
9. Configures any `JavaCompile` tasks to use the `-parameters` compiler argument.



[[reacting-to-other-plugins-kotlin]]
=== Reacting to the Kotlin Plugin
When {kotlin-plugin}[Kotlin's Gradle plugin] is applied to a project, the Spring Boot plugin:

1. Aligns the Kotlin version used in Spring Boot's dependency management with the version of the plugin.
   This is achieved by setting the `kotlin.version` property with a value that matches the version of the Kotlin plugin.
2. Configures any `KotlinCompile` tasks to use the `-java-parameters` compiler argument.



[[reacting-to-other-plugins-war]]
=== Reacting to the War Plugin
When Gradle's {war-plugin}[`war` plugin] is applied to a project, the Spring Boot plugin:

1. Creates a {boot-war-javadoc}[`BootWar`] task named `bootWar` that will create an executable, fat war for the project.
   In addition to the standard packaging, everything in the `providedRuntime` configuration will be packaged in `WEB-INF/lib-provided`.
2. Configures the `assemble` task to depend on the `bootWar` task.
3. Disables the `war` task.
4. Configures the `bootArchives` configuration to contain the artifact produced by the `bootWar` task.



[[reacting-to-other-plugins-dependency-management]]
=== Reacting to the Dependency Management Plugin
When the {dependency-management-plugin}[`io.spring.dependency-management` plugin] is applied to a project, the Spring Boot plugin will automatically import the `spring-boot-dependencies` bom.



[[reacting-to-other-plugins-application]]
=== Reacting to the Application Plugin
When Gradle's {application-plugin}[`application` plugin] is applied to a project, the Spring Boot plugin:

1. Creates a `CreateStartScripts` task named `bootStartScripts` that will create scripts that launch the artifact in the `bootArchives` configuration using `java -jar`.
   The task is configured to use the `applicationDefaultJvmArgs` property as a convention for its `defaultJvmOpts` property.
2. Creates a new distribution named `boot` and configures it to contain the artifact in the `bootArchives` configuration in its `lib` directory and the start scripts in its `bin` directory.
3. Configures the `bootRun` task to use the `mainClassName` property as a convention for its `main` property.
4. Configures the `bootRun` task to use the `applicationDefaultJvmArgs` property as a convention for its `jvmArgs` property.
5. Configures the `bootJar` task to use the `mainClassName` property as a convention for the `Start-Class` entry in its manifest.
6. Configures the `bootWar` task to use the `mainClassName` property as a convention for the `Start-Class` entry in its manifest.



[[reacting-to-other-plugins-maven]]
=== Reacting to the Maven plugin
WARNING: Support for reacting to Gradle's `maven` plugin is deprecated and will be removed in a future release.
Please use the `maven-publish` plugin instead.

When Gradle's {maven-plugin}[`maven` plugin] is applied to a project, the Spring Boot plugin will configure the `uploadBootArchives` `Upload` task to ensure that no dependencies are declared in the pom that it generates.
